Pyhton Report
Drug Information systems


Group Members:
Aminat Ajagbe (10541380)
Krishna Dumpala (10540452)
Sai Pothineni (10539362)

Lecturer: Paul Laird
Course:
Module Title:  Programming for Information Systems


Abstract : 
In this report we created a process using the knowledge we gained in this part of the course,
the system is an online website which is also a data driven website which can be used by any 
user there are no boundaries or limits on users to use our system. Our system is all about 
getting details on any pharmacy drug using drug names , or health symptoms or can even search 
through side effects online on the go. There are 4 major functions in our system that are search,
sort, insert and update. But the functions are depended on what type of a user is using the 
system. If a normal user is using the system only search and sort options are available, 
but if an admin is using the system he / she can use all of the functions. The significant
piece of this report will acquaint on how to use Python, Flask ,SQL to make a database table,
Webpage UI and inside logic to deal with user demand 

Introduction for (project name).

The “project name” is built to help people and make their life easier in various ways related to their medication details,
our project will help them resolve most of their doubts / queries related to any medicinal drug, information on not only
about the drug but it can also give some important information about the makers/ manufacturers of the drug and their address. 
Usually all the data is uploaded by or filed by the respective pharma companies, the main aim is to educate users about 
the medicines which are available in the market today.

There may be situations where a person may not be able to visit a Doctor for drug consultation for many reasons
for e.g. the person may not have time to visit due to his/her tight schedule, didn't get a doctor's appointment
etc.

By sitting at home our users can search for any drug which is present in the market and can learn about it. 
No formal knowledge is required for the user while using our system.Our project has a very simple UI for the 
purpose of user friendliness of the page. The data which is present in  the database is provided by the many 
pharma companies who actually manufacture those medicines. We take utmost care not to fill inappropriate data 
into the database.

Inside the database we can not only add or delete data/ information but can also create admin accounts where 
an admin can be a representative of a pharma company who provides details to our project.Such admins have few 
rights and cannot access full database. We as project managers have full rights and we can add or remove users 
as per request.

Objective of project.
The main objective behind our project is to store and manage information about medicines, user accounts. 
The project is built at administrative end level thus only the admins of the system have the rights to 
change / modify the data. The purpose of the project is to give users a handy system which will help /serve them 
access knowledge about medicinal drugs any time / on the go. The best part is the user does not need to have extra
knowledge about the system on how to use it, it is a user friendly system.

Functionalities.
-Project provides a searching facility where a user can search through various medicines using Drug name ,
Manufacturer name or can even search through symptoms.
-Manages the information provided by pharma companies.
-Displays the user’s queired medicine uses including side effects.
-Manages user , admin information.
-Editing,adding , updating and deleting of data made easier.
-User friendly, easy to interact with the system.



What is flask?
Flask is a lightweight WSGI web application framework. 
It is designed to make getting started quick and easy, with the ability to scale up to complex applications.

why flask?
Flask provides the most flexibility in terms of customisation
suitable for rapid development of web apps

Is flask a frontend or backend?
Flask is “Back End” as well as Django.
If you need arguments to convince him: -
Every single feature of Flask is supposed to be running on the server context.
Front End technologies are those who run mostly in the browser context

What is the flask used for?
Flask is a popular Python web framework, meaning it is a third-party Python library used for developing web applications.
Flask is a lightweight web frame of Python. 
It provides the user with libraries, modules and tools to help build Web-Applications such as a blog or wiki

FEATURES of FLASK:
built-in development server and fast debugger.
integrated support for unit testing.
RESTful request dispatching.
Jinja2 templating.
support for secure cookies (client side sessions)
WSGI 1.0 compliant.
Unicode based

work:
Flask is the prototype used to create instances of web application or web applications if you want to put it simple.
So, once we import Flask, we need to create an instance of the Flask class for our web app.

overview of project:
The frontend is developed in html and backend is developed in database.
the pharma data is developed in database.
The connection between frontend and backed is flask.

Why Python?
Python is for logic.
If loop, For loop, conditions, Expresssions, Functions...these all are designed in a logic.
By thinking in the way of user perspective,
how user uses the webpage
which input is given
by giving the input which output comes.



This project report will introduce how to help people and make their life easier in various ways related to their medication 
details by using python flask

In this project report, we will demonstrate the details of using python flask to build on the major components of the system

 method used:  the system is built using python flask web application framework  it is used because 
 Flask provides the most flexibility in terms of customization and suitable for rapid development of web apps
 
 limitation: The drug data system usually takes a while to check and verify the drug. Regardless of the 
 implementation time constraint, the program may have some possible bugs or weaknesses. Those bugs or vulnerabilities can be patched, 
 however, due to the simplicity and strong functionality of python flask.

 


